# 9. Command line introduction

When developing the client, you only need to get busy with mouse and keyboard. When you are developing the server, you need to get much busier with keyboard only.

A blinking cursor in a pitch black terminal is the fear you must face and conquer for your overall competency as developer.

## Terminal Software

Default terminal for Mac and Windows can do the trick, but if terminal will become a large part of your programming, you might as well use something prettier.

- [Cmder](http://cmder.net/) for Windows
- [iTerm2](https://www.iterm2.com/) for Mac

## Navigation

Just as you click on folder and folder to navigate through your computer, you can do the same using nothing but keyboards using the following commands

### ls (dir)

First thing you do when you get to the terminal is to know what you got.

### cd

Then, type cd and name of the directory to go to the folder.

- Use tab to auto complete. If there are three folders that start with the letter `a` and you type `a` and press tab, you can traverse through the options.

- Use `cd ..` to go to the parent directory.

### pwd (cd)

To figure out where you are now.

### mkdir

If creating folder in Finder or Windows Explorer involve pressing too much buttons, use mkdir to make a folder.

## Other Useful commands

Navigation is pretty much all you need to be used to for this course, but here is the list of useful commands for reference.

- cp [source] [dest]: Copy and Paste a file
- mv [source] [dest]: Move a file
- rm [target]: Remove a file
