# 11. Django Introduction

## What is Django?

If Bootstrap is `Frontend Framework`, Django is `Backend Framework` in Python. Just as `Frontend Framework` put together all the repeated layouts of client, `Backend Framework` also put together all the commonly required features to create a website so that all you need to know is how to use the framework instead of building from the scratch.

## What are the other options?

Django is not the only framework in town. These are notable web frameworks in Python.

- [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
- [webpy](http://webpy.org/)
- [Pyramid](https://trypyramid.com/)
- [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/)

Django is chosen because it's the most active framework among all of above.

## Which websites use Django?

- [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/)
- [Instagram](https://instagram.com/)
- [Spotify](https://www.spotify.com/)
- [Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/)
- [NASA](https://www.nasa.gov/)
- etc.

It's verified.

## pip - Before getting started with Django

Methods like `len()` and `str()` are built-in. For methods like `sqrt`, you need to import `math` module which is also built-in. However, Django is not built-in python module. You need to download it from online.

`pip` is a package management system used to install and manage Python packages. Download [this](https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py) and run it with python to install `pip`.

```bash
python get-pip.py
```

## Virtual env

Suppose you are a painter. You are going to work on multiple paints, but you don't draw all of them in the same canvas. I mean, you could if the canvas is large enough, but they may overlap and conflict with each other if each of the drawing gets big.

You want separate canvas for each of your drawing. You want separate `virtual environment` for each of your Python project.

Install virtualenvwrapper in on your computer to easily manage `virtualenv`.

- [Windows](https://github.com/davidmarble/virtualenvwrapper-win)
- [Mac](http://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.org/en/latest/install.html)

Use this command to create a virtualenv.

```bash
mkvirtualenv sample # Whatever the same you want
```

This is like preparing a canvas. You only need to do this when you start a project.
After creating the `virtualenv`, it will automatically activate it. If you close your console and come back to it, you are going to be at default virtualenv.

```bash
workon sample
```

This is like visiting to canvas you worked on. This should be how your day begins.

```bash
deactivate
```

This is to exit from your canvas and go back to the default one.

## Installing Django

Once you have `pip`, installing Django is like a breeze.

```bash
pip install django
```

That's it!

## Getting Started with Django

These steps are based on [Django's official tutorial](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/intro/tutorial01/).

### Create Project

You only need to do this once to create a web project.

```bash
django-admin startproject mysite
```

Replace mysite with any of the project names you want. This will automatically create the following five files.

```sh
mysite/
├── manage.py
└── mysite/
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── settings.py
    ├── urls.py
    └── wsgi.py
```

### Runserver

You can run server like the following.

```bash
python manage.py runserver
```

Visit http://127.0.0.1:8000/. You can see this is a default page.

### pyc file

After you just ran the server, you will see that your files are doubled with bunch of \*.pyc files.
They are called `byte code`. If \*.py is for human to understand, \*.pyc is for computer to understand. They are automatically generated so please ignore them.

### Create an App

After creating your project, now you create your app.

```bash
python manage.py startapp home
```

This command adds more files to your project.

```sh
home/
├── __init__.py
├── admin.py
├── apps.py
└── migrations/
    └── __init__.py
├── models.py
├── tests.py
└── views.py
```

> Whoa, it just keeps automatically creating files. I don't know what's going on!

That is the whole point. There is so much work you need to do to build a stable web application. Django does all that much work so that you can focus on building your own business logic.

> What is home app for?

Home app is created to display your client html files that don't have anything to do with models.

### Settings

Now, open `mysite/settings.py` and behold!

Settings is 122 lines of files that are automatically generated as well. This is what's good and bad about Django. It takes care of everything like a magic, but sometimes, it's too magical that you get lost.

We aren't going to stay here for long. Just add your app in the INSTALLED_APPS.

```python
INSTALLED_APPS = [
    'django.contrib.admin',
    'django.contrib.auth',
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    'django.contrib.sessions',
    'django.contrib.messages',
    'django.contrib.staticfiles',
    'home',
]
```

## Writing a simple view

Let's write a simple view at `home/views.py`

```python
# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
from django.http import HttpResponse


def index(request):
    return HttpResponse("Hello World!")
```

## URL

A website has multiple pages and each page has its own `URL`. You can configure this URL at `mysite/urls.py`

```python
from django.conf.urls import url
from django.contrib import admin

urlpatterns = [
    url(r'^admin/', admin.site.urls),
]
```

Note that Django automatically generated all these comments. Make it look like this.

```python
from django.conf.urls import include, url
from django.contrib import admin

urlpatterns = [
    url(r'^', include('home.urls')),
    url(r'^admin/', admin.site.urls),
]
```

Then create `home/urls.py` and fill it in with the following.

```python
from django.conf.urls import url
from . import views

urlpatterns = [
    url(r'^$', views.index, name='index'),
]
```

Now run server and here it is! It printed out Hello World.

### Regex

That thing that starts with `r` is not your regular string. It's called `Regular Expression` and it's one of the powerful ideas in programming. It's also pretty tricky so we won't go in depth with Regex.

`Regex` is used to search/match strings.

```python
url(r'^admin/', ...)
url(r'^about/$', ...)
url(r'^post/(\d+)/$', ...)
```

`r'^admin/'` means all addresses that start with `admin/`. That's what `^` is for. for URL, it's necessary. This means it could also be `admin/users/`, `admin/posts/`, etc. since it only has `^`.

`r'^about/$'` means all addresses that start and end with `about/`. It only points to one address: about page. That's what `$` is for. It can't have `about/me/` or `about/webiste/` thanks to `$`.

`r'^post/(\d+)/$'` means all addresses that start with `post/`, end with `/` with `(\d+)` in between. Whenever regex has `(` and `)`, it calls for special effect. `(\d+)` means any digits (`d`) regardless of its length (`+`).

There are plenty of complex rules for regex (ex. detecting whether it's a valid e-mail or not), but you only need to know basic to create your website.

### What is happening?

You are running a server at 127.0.0.1:8000. The server is listening to whoever accessing that address. Using your web browser, you sent request to the server, asking for its response. Its response is "Hello World".

### Rendering HTML

Now, what if its response is in html?

```python
# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
from django.http import HttpResponse


def home(request):
    return HttpResponse("<html><h1>Hello</h1><h2>World!</h2></html>")
```

Oh, it works! So... how do I render file now?

### Rendering template file

Now, create `mysite/home/templates/home/index.html`. Why so complicated? Django believes this will easily organize the project.

```html
<!-- index.html -->
<html>Hey there!</html>
```

Now, change your `views.py` into this.

```python
# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
from django.shortcuts import render


def index(request):
    return render(request, "home/index.html", {})
```

### Loading Static files

So... html files go into templates. Where do css and image files go? Your `index.css` goes to `mysite/home/static/css/index.css`.

Then, how do I load it from html?

```html
{% load staticfiles %}

<html>
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="{% static 'css/index.css' %}">
  </head>
  <body>
    Hello There
  </body>
</html>
```

Umm... didn't you say html only has pointy brackets? What are those percentages? We will discuss this later.

### Rendering other pages

So... there are multiple pages in a website. How do I render my about page at `localhost:8000/about/`?

```python
# mysite/home/urls.py
from django.conf.urls import url
from . import views

urlpatterns = [
    url(r'^$', views.index, name='index'),
    url(r'^about/$', views.about, name='about'),
]

# mysite/home/views.py
# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
from django.shortcuts import render


def index(request):
    return render(request, "home/index.html", {})


def about(request):
    return render(request, "home/about.html", {})

```

```html
<!-- mysite/home/templates/home/about.html -->
{% load staticfiles %}

<html>
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="{% static 'css/index.css' %}">
  </head>
  <body>
    About Page
  </body>
</html>
```

Now you have about page.
This is how your development process will be like.

- `mysite/home/urls.py` to add url
- `mysite/home/views.py` to add view
- `mysite/home/templates/home/` to add html files
- `mysite/home/static/css/` to add css files

You can create whatever Level 1 or Level 2 websites only changing these files.

### Localhost vs index.html

What is so special about this vs what we did before a.k.a. just clicking to open the file?

Look at the address.

`http://localhost:8000/`
`file:///Users/jungwoolee/TechBridge/demo/django/mysite/home/templates/home/index.html`

The former has http while the latter has file. File is just opening a file in your computer and it has nothing to do with server. It may look the same, but file it cannot sign you in. Server can.
